# Jimmy-Wrangler-Data-Explorer_Joseph-Karnes

#The main goal of this project was to see if the average cost of insurance from each state in the US had a significant effect on the amount of tests or the amount of fatalities from each respective state.
#In this repository are included a JuPyter notebook, and two versions of two different data sets for employer-sponsored health insurance costs. One type of insurance cost was single-payer costs, and the other type was family costs. The raw files were sourced directly from the commonwealth page linked below. As explained in the JuPyter notebook, a couple of edits needed to be made in order to make the data easier to process.
#The dataset with information on COVID-19 was sourced from Kaggle, which has recent data (last updated date was August 29th) on the number of positive and negative tests, as well as fatalities from each state. On the page, the us_states_covid19_daily.csv file was obtained. (Link: https://www.kaggle.com/sudalairajkumar/covid19-in-usa?select=us_states_covid19_daily.csv)
#There were some data points excluded from the COVID-19 dataset that were representations of some US territories that were not on the main mass in North America. These territories included Guam, the Virgin Islands and Puerto Rico. The reasoning behind why these territories were not included was because of the lack of information on them in the insurance datasets.
#For the average insurance costs, statistics were obtained from a study posted on commonwealth.org, which had data sourced from the federal Medical Expenditure Panel Survey-Insurance Component (MEPS-IC). The sourced data from Commonwealth had merely collected  the values from all of the spreadsheets from each state on the MEPS-IC site. (link: https://www.commonwealthfund.org/publications/issue-briefs/2018/dec/cost-employer-insurance-growing-burden-middle-income-families) (Link for MEPS-IC site: https://meps.ahrq.gov/mepsweb/data_stats/state_tables.jsp?regionid=-1&year=2016)
#One assumption of note that I needed to make was an incorrectly entered datapoint in the family costs dataset. There were two values for Hawaii, but no value for Michigan. Since Hawaii already had the lowest single-payer costs and since Hawaii seems to have an overall low insurance cost, the lower value was given to Hawaii while the higher value was given to Michigan.
#There were some aspects of the data that I had manually altered due to time constraints. These aspects were the titles of each of the two columns and the replacement of each state name with its abbreviation for better compatibility with the COVID-19 dataset.
